# Machine-Learning
Problem Statement
Predict the bike-sharing counts per hour based on the features including weather, day, time, humidity, wind speed, season e.t.c.

Learning Objectives
At the end of the mini-project, you will be able to :

perform data exploration and visualization
implement linear regression using sklearn and optimization
apply regularization on regression using Lasso, Ridge and Elasticnet techniques
calculate and compare the MSE value of each regression technique
analyze the features that are best contributing to the target
Dataset
The dataset chosen for this mini-project is Bike Sharing Dataset. This dataset contains the hourly and daily count of rental bikes between the years 2011 and 2012 in the capital bike share system with the corresponding weather and seasonal information. This dataset consists of 17389 instances of each 16 features.

Bike sharing systems are a new generation of traditional bike rentals where the whole process from membership, rental and return has become automatic. Through these systems, the user can easily rent a bike from a particular position and return to another position. Currently, there are about over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world which is composed of over 500 thousand bicycles. Today, there exists great interest in these systems due to their important role in traffic, environmental and health issues.

Apart from interesting real world applications of bike sharing systems, the characteristics of data being generated by these systems make them attractive for the research. As opposed to other transport services such as bus or subway, the duration of travel, departure and arrival position are explicitly recorded in these systems. This feature turns bike sharing system into a virtual sensor network that can be used for sensing mobility in the city. Hence, it is expected that the most important events in the city could be detected via monitoring these data.

drawing

Data Fields
dteday - hourly date
season - 1 = spring, 2 = summer, 3 = fall, 4 = winter
hr - hour
holiday - whether the day is considered a holiday
workingday - whether the day is neither a weekend nor holiday
weathersit -
1 - Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
2 - Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
3 - Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
4 - Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
temp - temperature in Celsius
atemp - "feels like" temperature in Celsius
humidity - relative humidity
windspeed - wind speed
casual - number of non-registered user rentals initiated
registered - number of registered user rentals initiated
cnt - number of total rentals
Information
Regularization: It is a form of regression that shrinks the coefficient estimates towards zero. In other words, this technique discourages learning a more complex or flexible model, to avoid the risk of overfitting. A simple relation for linear regression looks like this.

Y≈β0+β1X1+β2X2+…+βpXp 

Here  Y  represents the learned relation and  β  represents the coefficient estimates for different variables or predictors(X).

If there is noise in the training data, then the estimated coefficients won’t generalize well to the future data. This is where regularization comes in and shrinks or regularizes these learned estimates towards zero.

Below are the Regularization techniques:

Ridge Regression
Lasso Regression
Elasticnet Regression
